SDK X 10.4.0 Updates (#148)
helpshift/helpshift-docs: docs/sdkx_android/identity-users.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 45
title: Identity User Management
description: Learn more about identifying and managing users.
---

import {
  Admonition,
  CodeBlock,
  Tabs,
  TabItem,
  Image,
} from "@site/src/components/forDocs";

<Admonition type="info" title="Note">

All the public APIs in the SDK should be called after initializing the SDK via [Helpshift installWithPlatformId API](/sdkx_android/getting-started#start-using)

</Admonition>

## Managing users with the Identity System​

Setting up the Identity System requires some development effort, but provides many advantages over the legacy method in the form of faster context collection, easier agent experience, enhanced security, and spam protection.

### Prerequisites​

<Admonition type="info" title="NOTE">
  This feature is in closed beta. Contact Helpshift Support team to enable this feature.
</Admonition>

> - Ensure that the Identity System is enabled for your domain (reach out to Helpshift support if you wish to enable this)

Reviewer: ```
```suggestion
- Ensure that the Identity System is enabled for your domain (reach out to Helpshift support if you wish to enable this)
```
This feature is in closed beta. Contact Helpshift Support team to enable this feature.

> - Ensure that the Identity System is enabled for your domain (reach out to Helpshift support if you wish to enable this)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Ensure that the Identity System is enabled for your domain (reach out to Helpshift Support if you wish to enable this)
```

- Ensure that you have the secret key from Helpshift Dashboard. The secret key can be generated from the “User Identity Verification (New ID System)” section of your app’s settings.
  {" "}
  <Image
    src="/static/books/helpshiftx/dashboard_identity_secret_key.png"
    width="full"
  />

> - Ensure that you have an endpoint set up for obtaining user JWTs on-demand. This endpoint should use the secret key generated above to sign the JWT. (TODO KB link)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Ensure that you have an endpoint set up for obtaining user JWTs on-demand. This endpoint should use the secret key generated above to sign the JWT. 
```

---
sidebar_position: 45
title: Identity User Management
description: Learn more about identifying and managing users.
---

import {
  Admonition,
  CodeBlock,
  Tabs,
  TabItem,
  Image,
} from "@site/src/components/forDocs";

<Admonition type="info" title="Note">

All the public APIs in the SDK should be called after initializing the SDK via [Helpshift installWithPlatformId API](/sdkx_android/getting-started#start-using)

</Admonition>

## Managing users with the Identity System​

Setting up the Identity System requires some development effort, but provides many advantages over the legacy method in the form of faster context collection, easier agent experience, enhanced security and spam protection.

### Prerequisites​

<Admonition type="info" title="NOTE">

>   This feature is in closed beta. Contact Helpshift Customer Success team to

Reviewer 3: Consider linking the KB article here to give more details about the feature to the reader. If the KB article is already added somewhere prominently, you can ignore this comment.

Reviewer 2: yes, KB article is added in other part docs

>   This feature is in closed beta. Contact Helpshift Customer Success team to

Reviewer 2: Yes, they should approach the tech support team.
We have built jobs to automatically turn on this feature

  enable this feature.
</Admonition>

- Ensure that the Identity System is enabled for your domain (reach out to Helpshift support if you wish to enable this)
- Ensure that you have the secret key from Helpshift dashboard. The secret key can be generated from the “User Identity Verification (New ID System)” section of your app’s settings.
  {" "}
  <Image
    src="/static/books/helpshiftx/dashboard_identity_secret_key.png"
    width="full"
  />
- Ensure that you have an endpoint set up for obtaining user JWTs on-demand. This endpoint should use the secret key generated above to sign the JWT. (TODO KB link)

### Logging in your end-users

> In order to use the new Identity system, you need to implement the following steps:

Reviewer 2: i hope you mean System instead of system

Additionally, following rules apply depending on the value of `full_privacy_enabled` flag in config.

- If full privacy flag is false, one of uid or email is mandatory in the identities array.
- If full privacy flag is true, no identity keys are mandatory. However the behaviour changes depending on the presence of uid key -
  - If uid is present - SDK will use the uid to identify the user.
  - If uid is absent - SDK will generate an anonymous ID and use this ID to identify the user.
- Full privacy is assumed to be false if no value is specified, or if the passed value can’t be parsed as a boolean type.

<Admonition type="info" title="Important">

Always generate the JWT on the server side, and store your shared secret securely.

</Admonition>

### Logging in with anonymous users

We recommend logging in your end-user into Helpshift as early as possible, since it helps streamline the entire support experience.

However, in the case where you have anonymous users, all you have to do is login with an empty JWT string, and Helpshift will take care of generating an anonymous UID and logging your end-user in.

> SDK will try it’s best to maintain the same anonymous user across multiple logins as long as you pass empty JWT. Once you login with a non-empty JWT, the existing anonymous user will be lost and a new one will be created the next time you login with empty JWT.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
SDK will try its best to maintain the same anonymous user across multiple logins as long as you pass empty JWT. Once you login with a non-empty JWT, the existing anonymous user will be lost and a new one will be created the next time you login with empty JWT.
```

After you login with an anonymous user, you can’t add more identities for this user later. That is to say, `addUserIdentities` API is a no-op if current user is anonymous.

### Best practices to follow for login API

> - Call the login API once when the user logs in to your app. Avoid calling it in response to repeat-able events like app foreground, right before opening support section of your app etc.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Call the login API once when the user logs in to your app. Avoid calling it in response to repeatable events like app foreground, right before opening support section of your app etc.
```

> - When you have more information to associate with current logged in user, use the `addUserIdentities` API and not the login API. Calling login API will necessarily log out the current user and log in a new user.

Reviewer 3: Should this be "necessarily" or "unnecessarily"?

For more details on these events, please check the [Delegates](/sdkx_android/delegates/#helpshifteventusersessionexpired) page.

### Updating user identities

Use the `addUserIdentities` API to update the identities associated with the logged in user. This API updates the identities for a non-anonymous logged in user only. If your current user has been logged in with an empty JWT (aka an anonymous user), this API will be no-op.

```java
Helpshift.addUserIdentities(identitiesJwt);
```

You need to obtain a JWT for new identities from your dedicated endpoint. Please check the Prerequisites section on this page for more details.

This API leverages the existing Helpshift delegates system to notify the app in case of any errors. For more details on the error events that can be triggered by this API, please refer the [Delegates](/sdkx_android/delegates.mdx/#user-identity-system-events) page.

## Login failure reasons

> Identity system login can fail for any of the reasons mentioned below. A reason may have associated errors that may help narrow pinpoint the exact cause of the failure. As an example, if the failure is due to an invalid key in identities JWT, the errors dictionary will contain the exact key (or keys) found to be invalid. The value against this key will indicate what failed (value too big, value type not supported etc).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Identity system login can fail for any of the reasons mentioned below. A reason may have associated errors that may help pinpoint the exact cause of the failure. As an example, if the failure is due to an invalid key in identities JWT, the errors dictionary will contain the exact key (or keys) found to be invalid. The value against this key will indicate what failed (value too big, value type not supported, etc).
```
